Welcome back.
We have one last tree that I want to talk about, and that is a tree or a tree.
Pronunciation here varies on who you ask, but let's have a look at what it is.
A try is a specialized tree used in searching, most often with text, as you can see here.
And in most cases, it can outperform binary search trees, hash tables and most other data structures
we've been talking about depending on the type of search you're doing.
And just by looking at this image, you might understand what it does.
Tries allow you to know if a word or part of a word exists in a body of text.
You see, a tree has usually an empty root note, which is the starting point.
And from there letters are added.
You see that it's not a binary tree.
It can have multiple children.
In this case, it will most likely have 26 children because there's 26 letters in the alphabet.
The power of the try is when we search for something such as N.
If we had this dictionary, we know right away that there's two words associated with the word n.
Another name for a tree is something called prefix tree.
It's a tree like data structure which proves to be quite efficient in solving these problems specific
to strengths.
You can think of it as auto completion, right?
When you search something on Google, it knows what you might be searching for or it tries and completes
the word for you.
And this is what it's used for, for searching words in a dictionary, providing auto suggestions on
search engines or even IP routing.
If I typed in a.
I know immediately that all the children are related to a and I can print out a, r e and then as the
benefit of this type of data structure is speed and space, what do you think the big o of finding a
word in this data structure is?
We're not going to go through every single node.
Instead, all we need to do is find the length of the word.
So the big o of a try is o of length.
That is the length of the word.
If I'm looking for the word, r, a, r, e, all I do is look for a, then look for R, then look for
E.
All I'm doing is hitting three notes which are associated with the length of the word when it comes
to space.
Complexity tries also have a major advantage.
Because we use prefixes such as MN here is used in different words and same with a.
We don't have to store it multiple times.
It's stored in one location and you have children linking to it.
Because of these prefixes, you save a lot of space because you don't have to store the word not in
use.
You get to avoid storing that extra in.